Can't touch this

You may have heard of Augmented Reality recently. If you've seen Schwartzenager's heads-up display in Terminator, you already get the idea. It's not a new concept.

It might just be another fad getting hype, already on its way into the bitbucket of failed ideas, but I don't think so.

It's no secret that virtual reality had a bit of a heyday in the nineties. Problem was, nobody actually did anything interesting with it. Back then, it was sort of like television, except there wasn't anything interesting to see.

Back then, other tech was actually getting used. People played with cell phones and palm pilots and web sites. If you haven't noticed, people made interesting stuff you could use on those things, and they're still around. Actually, those three little tools seem to be merging into the same thing. There are web sites just for phones, phones that are palm pilots, &c.

There's a reason for that. The tech that survives is tech that people play with. The best gadgets are social objects. People take them with them and show them off. But they aren't just social objects, they're tools.

If you give someone a tool that puts them in a playful mood, they're bound to try to make stuff with it. If it's just making people bored, they'll wander off and find something interesting to play with.

The thing that seperates virtual from augmented reality is that playful mood. Augmented reality lives on top of the real world, and instead of keeping you stuck in a made up space, you want to take augmented objects and make them work with other stuff.

The point I'm getting at is that some of today's augmented reality tools are just making the same mistakes of virtual reality. It's not enough to just make stuff that lives in its own world. Augemented reality is only going to work if you bring real stuff in.

Beyond that, the tools have to be fun. I don't care what your tech is, but there has to be some green and red. Making a cell phone? Then make it fun to make and destroy calls. Green for accept, red for destroy. Making a GPS navigator? Then make it fun to follow directions. Green for the right direction, red for wandering aimlessly. Teaching people to overcome their colorblindness? Green for "who knows what this color is," red for "stupid, I can't tell the difference between these colors, knock it off." Maybe I should have gone with ding and honk. You get the idea.
