I'm a Republican in the reddest state in the US, Oklahoma. I joined because I think they're the most misguided. I'm probably a libertarian at heart, but I've got to be a member of a party to vote in primaries here, so republican I am.

If you buy things from people who take no interest in you, that sucks. If you're not giving them money because of your interest in them, that sucks. I believe the best way for me to support those people I care about is through the market, if I can. Obviously that doesn't map to everything, but I think it's important to view those things as special cases.

The problem with federally nationalized health care is that some guy I voted for is telling people half way across the country how their community has to work. In some places, the community really needs the best roads money can buy. Other places have other priorities. I think that's true of health care as well.

If I want a health care safety net, I can move to Massachusetts. If I want to ply my trade as a sex worker, I can move to many places in Nevada. It's easy to object to the overhead of moving to a different state, but a Greyhound ticket really isn't a big cost. What really pisses people off is that they can't have it their way right where they are. This isn't a swipe at health care folks, I don't like having to choose between Tulsa and San Francisco and Boston. But we make trade offs.

The thing that concerns me is that states aren't leading the way with health care reform, in whatever way that may be. It's maddening that instead of regulating insurers at home, we have to deal with them in DC.

I like fixing at home because you can play with it, try something out, and throw it away. Yes, when you screw it up, it hurts. But the hurting is motivates reform. If a third of the nation suffers at the hands of federal misguidedness, there's nothing to be done. The damage is institutonalized.

This isn't some new realization. We have two commissions in charge of reguliting our stock markets and commodities markets. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission do almost the same thing. It's commonly accepted that there shouldn't be two groups doing such similar jobs. But there's no one crazy enough to do the work to get rid of one. They're institutionalized, and that's just the way it is.

Health care in this country isn't perfect. But we've got options. Want reform? Please, fix it in your community. Show the rest of us how much better it can be. Even with federal reform there's a lot left to improve. But let's not institutionalize until we know it works.
