Enlightenment should be taken lightly

Enlightenment is the perfect state of man. While few people would claim to accurately describe enlightenment, even fewer would say such a description applies to their-selves. This need not be so, and being one of the most few, I intend to prove it.

Aristotle is known for his like of categories. The flaw of his rigid categories is not in its usefulness, but in explaining the exact meaning of each category. Simply put, no one is born knowing how to speak, attaching words to the things, ideas, and actions of the world. Because of this, every idea must be able to be explained. Here is where problems always start, because no one has the world explained to them the same way. This is not to say that our worlds are different, but rather that the words we have learned are attached to the world differently. And while this is less true with things like colors, almost untrue with numbers, the truth is obvious with things like god, good, love, and anything a philosopher might ramble about.

That is the first snag with describing enlightenment. While a scientist might say, "Take this word exactly as I define it," such a statement is worthless. First, no one ever does. Second, every word used to define it would have to be defined in such a way, making the definition worthless; or the definition uses words they assume have a common meaning, and that's not happening either. So here I'm going with, "If it makes sense to you, that's what I mean." If it doesn't make sense, you don't understand. Find me, and I'll be happy to explain whatever is troubling you. If I'm dead, don't worry about it, it is unimportant anyway.

I want to spend more time on defining things. While I've said how every idea must be able to be explained, I don't think that is a strong enough statement. Because an idea doesn't really exist until it has been explained. People tend to believe that there is a wealth of knowledge out there, all that is needed is to find it. This isn't true. If you talk to a physicist discovering new particles that exist, or new ways that things act, you'll realize these things aren't known until that physicist tells someone else. That doesn't sound any different than finding new knowledge, but then realize how that physicist has to describe that new idea. That's right, by using words that already have meaning. While I'm not going to say that you can just toss a bunch of words together and find the thing you describe, you are creating a new idea. Even if it doesn't describe anything real, who cares? If it makes sense, that's an idea. Pigs can fly. Not exactly true, but that phrase gets used enough that your children will probably hear it someday. And that's knowledge, real or imaginary, if someone will say it, it's known.

When you think like that, every word you speak, or communicate otherwise, is important. It takes so much effort for me not to delete what I'm writing right now because of that. If someone reads this, they won't know anything new. They might connect a few old ideas in new ways, but if they didn't already know this was true, how could I convince them? Give me a good answer to that, and I'll give you everything I own.

But I'm sure I can't teach you anything new. Which is to say, you already know what enlightenment is. You know that everyone can reach enlightenment, but very few people do. Seems weird, doesn't it? How could you know, vaguely, about enlightenment but not be enlightened? Have you heard of being happy? I imagine you can, just think about what it would feel like to earn something you've worked very hard for. That's happiness. Actually, you're probably feeling a little happy just thinking about it. But the same doesn't 