Her effect

She recently ripped a new one for a person I very much respect when he went out of his way to try to help her accomplish her goals. For all I know, he's fond of the new oriface. But it hurt me to watch as he defended the middle way against her, and ended up in tears.

The hard part is that even though I like him more as a person, I agree with her on principle.

She is notoriously quick to shoot down the presumtuous. As is her right. In her fight against patriarchy, she's not interested in getting you up to speed. As is her right.

You shouldn't to have to explain why racism is wrong to a school board orgainizing a segregated prom. Why should you have to explain why patriarchy and rape culture wrong?

This is probably hard for you, because you've got sympathy for the idiots making trouble. You've probably got friends who qualify. You've certainly walked past obviously wrong (but not necessarily illegal) behaviour and kept your head down. God knows it's hard for me, because I have.

But when you go out of your way to contact her, is it any wonder she rips you a new one?  Is it any wonder she isn't forgiving about your inability to learn how to respect people on your own? That she gets pissed that you seem to have no passion in fixing problems that cause great suffering? That you aren't even willing to speak in public about what you know to be wrong? That you'll close your eyes and not read twitter or blogs or go to conferences or will even leave the room because the topic upsets you? Or that you're willing to make grand proclemations about how to make everything better, then never attempt to deliver? (Hint: no.)

It's also interesting when you think she's talking about you. Which is to say, that she's critiqueing you in a passive agressive way. Which is entirely rediculous, Because really? Her being merely *passive* aggressive? Yet this feeling that “She's talking about me,” is one of the most important skills of communication. Crooners in martini bars and third rate politicians and AM radio pundits everywhere would perform minor felonies just to be able to reach their audiences like that.

But when I listen to her put folks in their place, tell them it is not their place to speak, chastise them for the smallest of errors; I think of the opposite situation. It's hard not to think of some quintessentially patriarchal situations and wonder, what makes this approach different? So let me tell you a story.[1]

When I was taking a math class[1]  in college, one of my group assignments put me with a woman who stood out as particularly smart and capable. So I asked why she never spoke up in class. I know she'd pointed out the teachers mistakes to me. She told me that she knew when to keep her head down. That she couldn't make a mistake, and certainly not in public. Because she had worked hard to get this far, and she wasn't going to let herself be set back. I, being young and naive, argued with her about it. Said that it was her right. Said that I do the opposite, I'll gladly hijack the class to make sure I learn what I think is important, and so should she.[3] I don't remember the end of the conversation, which probably means she politely acknowledged my mansplanation and got back to actually getting us a good grade on the project. And proceeded to not speak up in class any more than she had before our conversation.

But these days I'm not so sure my unsolicited advice was valuable. If you want to arm the revolution, your two options are to steal all the firearms (from the people who already have all the firearms), or to get someone legitimate to provide you with them. While the first option has more sexy world-lounge downtempo[4], the second avoids violence which does not advance the cause. Which is to say, you have three options: violent, non-violent, and internal revolutions. For internal revolution it may be better for some women to play along so they can get the power required to effect change. Non-violent is a long road of boycotts and public relations, eventually squeezing the opposition out of power or perhaps into consession. Of course violence is the simplest, all that's required is to destroy all that oppose you. Those three available actions: qualified support, directed negligence, and destruction, are the only tools which effect change.

It's more complicated than that. People are not static, when they feel like they may be attacked, they become defensive. Hijack a few small transports of firearms and soon every licenced weapons holder in the state will have protection cocked and at an arm's length. While before, they might only have run, now they are much more likely to stand their ground. [insert sentence where I repeat the same bit about defensiveness but with respect to people telling them that their ideas are wrong, but with way more wit and panache.] That's the tough deal about the sliding scale of aggressively effecting change, the more efficient and aggressive the approach, the more defense will be created.

Alternative to making folks defensive, it's possible to make them sympathetic. Where defensiveness is bourne of aggressiveness (by violence or communication), sympathy is bourne of pathos, logos and ethos.[9] Which is to say, making yourself pathetic, logical or ethical. Obviously, these forms of argument are no where near as cathartic as violence. But this kind of personal argument against those who can effect change is the way to do it without raising defenses. Which is extremely valuable for long term approaches.

This are frustrating facts. Most reasonable people don't want to hurt, or self-segregate from, or play along with bad people. And they don't want to alienate people who are on the fence. Or pander to folks who are irredimable. But when it comes to bad people, those are your options. Well, good people too. Which brings us back from theoretical land into “what am I supposed to do?”

You are, first and foremost, supposed to make up your own mind. Read books. Talk to people you trust. Talk to people you distrust. Figure out what rape culture means to you. Figure out what patriarchy means to you. Figure out what you're willing to accept as punishment for worst offenders, and what is a reasonable response to the complicit, and how to deal with the well meaning but ineffectual.

You must understand who is best dealt with by violence. Who will become defensive no matter how reasonable or sympathetic your argument could be? How much is it possible to entirely ignore them? Will attacking them, in words or physical destruction, motivate people to your side? Are you willing to cause emotional or physical pain to these people and the people who care for them for your cause?

You must understand who is best dealt with by communication. Who is already on your side but unsure of how to proceed? Who is on the fence and in need of motivation? What facts, feelings do they need to experience to understand your goal? Is it worth spending the effort to bring them to your side?

What I've just described is rough and theoretical. But it need not be so. If you understand what is involved, 


Then write it down, burn it, and martyr yourself taking down the security door at godaddy because you aren't going to get any of it.


1: This story is probably wholely mis-remembered story. But that's not the point. Think of it as a cautionary tale to inform children of the dangers of eating delicious buildings belonging to locally significant elder citizens, who seem to take the concept of advancing use of a property in return for an arm and a leg a bit litteraly. Or perhaps something about how pickeyness with respect to oatmeal can indicate a suceptability to fashionably attired beings of the genus canis. Hmm, I seem to be stuck on a death-by-eating metaphor, when I'm just trying to say that I'm trying to indoctrinate you with my personal morality by way of phrases of questionable versamilitude. 

1: At the time, I was absolutely amazed by how many more women take math majors than computer science. At Oklahoma State I had a grand total of two female undergrads accross all of my classes. I think I also had two grad students, but we didn't really talk. The math class in question ~20 women to ~10 men. 

3: Yes, I was that asshole who argued with the professor during lecture, or asked about things relevant but tangential to what would actually be on the test. Because I didn't aquire tens of thousands of dollars of debt to miss an oppourtunity to learn.

4: The sweet sweet jams of secret agent on Soma.fm accompanies all my james bond style revolutionary action. And infinite Shirley Basey.

9: Damn my high school debate class for encouraging me to read ars rhetorica. 