I've been sceptical of the organic food movement since I first heard of it. But while I've gotten over the fact that it's named after formal term of chemistry, I still haven't grown to love the movements aims. But I've only recently had the time to think through the details.

The issue is that organic is against high intensity farming. This planet only has so much arable land. Organic farming sets a limit on the yield for eah acre of this land. There is just no way to feed the world with the yield organic methods support.

Beyond that, organic lovers tend to be advocates for local producers. Beyond the fact that this leads to a bunch of producers with less shared knowledge and less of the specialization that makes for truly amazing product, it also creates demand to produce products that are less suited to the local environment. This strains the yields of local arable land even more.

What the world needs is systems that let us pursue a middle way. I don't know that all the things banned by organic farming are harmless, but the one strike you're out system currently advocated is bound to strangle the safe tech that organics are forbidding outright. The most important thing is to bring nuance into the market, so Gmo and bgh and pesticides and synthetic fertilizers aren't lumped into the same category.

Organics also need to grow into high into high intensity methods. If organic really is valuable, we're going to have to find a way to feed the world with it, and today's methods aren't going to cut it. Nuanced categories can help with this because different non-organic methods have different effects on yield and price. Ultimately we're going to have to balance what we're willing to live with in the global market with our pocketbooks

Finally, we've got to keep a skeptical eye toward the local producers. We'll always need upstarts trying to make something awesome where no one has done it before. We wouldn't have  Californian wine or Thai chilies without it. But local isn't an end to itself, it's a means to finding what the best way to make awesome stuff is. If we keep that in mind, we'll keep getting better.
