Selfless Help
==========

You may be acquainted with Ze Frank. He's one of those oddities in the present media, a niche icon. He's one of my self help gurus. I've got others, but you really don't want to know them. But you ought to know, self help isn't. It's really somebody else telling you "Stupid, I can't help you, only you can do that." Isn't that just what all help is?

My favorite little dity of ze frank's is waves. Look it up. From my perspective, he says, "Dude, look at all the people who think they get it and say we don't. Hmm, Maybe they're onto something worthless." But today he came out with a bit called bittersweet. It is. But it makes me want to do something.

Anyway, the eighteenth is my twenty-first birthday. Yay! Or, Oh Shit! I'm sure you've been or will be there. It's America's unofficial celebration of adulthood. They kindly let us legally drink ourselves stupid so we can forget the despair. I appreciate it. Too bad the spirits won't help much.

Just to give myself the incentive to live up to my goals, I want to let you know that's my day. I'm accepting my responsibility as the most perfect being on this mediocre world. I'm going to do something. You don't know what it is, but you will. And don't worry, though you'll fight it, you'll appreciate it when you're older. I'm only accepting fourteen years of responsibility, then I'm moving on to coffee or beer or some other art where I can interact with my clients. Feel free to look me up in 2021 and I'll buy you a drink. Really.

I'm smoking my last week of cigarettes, enjoying my last few indulgences before I accept the pain. I wish you could send me a beer or a blunt. But you won't. This self will be gone before you get the chance.

You should know, I'll gladly tell you my plans. But I'm going to be busy. So you'll need to seek me out. Regardless, if you want to know what I'm up to, seek me out & I'll indulge your enquiries.

I do want to way something before I start. I'm not really better than you. I'm enlightened, and so you can be. I'm significant, and so you can be. But you have to realize your potential. So I'm going to let you in on a very important fact. It is the foundation of science, religion, and value itself. They don't know what they want. But if you give it to them, they will be indebted to you forever.

I hope you can give them their very desires. But while you're at it, I'll be doing my hardest to best you.